Date: February 16,2016
Title: Git

Key points:

	Learned Branching Model 
	Basic Git commands
	Branching
	Merge Tools
	Git Tools
	Fork
	SSH vd Http
	Stash and Jira
	
Branching Model:

	Terms:
	
		Features - refer to functionality
		Bug - refer to detection of error during pre production phase
		Bugfix - branch that deals with bug is named as Bugfix
		Defect - error found post production
		Defectfix - branch that deals with defect 
	
	Branching Hirarchy:
	
				Master - root
		defectfix	Develop - between sprint start and code freeze 
						release - between code freeze and sprint stop 
							bugfix
						
		bugfix is branched from release.
		defectfix is branched from Master
		features are added to develop branch.
		
Git Tools:

	Source Tree
	Git Bash
	Github
	
Merge Tools: 

	Beyond compare
	Meld
	Kdiff
	
	Worked with Meld. To add meld in gitbash,do 
	
	git config --global merge.tool meld
    git config --global mergetool.meld.path c:/Progra~2/meld/bin/
	
	during conflit, just type git mergetool. meld willopen automatically
	
Basic Git commands: 

	git init
	git status
	git add
	git commit
	git remote add
	git push
	git pull
	git diff
		git diff HEAD - difference between Last commited and present. Same result as git diff --staged if the changes are staged 
		git diff --staged - deifference between Last commited and staged
	git log -10 - shows last 10 commits
	git reset filename - makes file unstaged (by default its a soft reset)
	git checkout -- filename - after doing reset, the file will be an unstaged file. To remove the changes completely, we do checkout 
	git reset --hard - reverts back to last commit
	
Stashing:

used when you don’t want to do a commit of half-done work but u need to store it somewhere and later need to work on it. 

git stash - to stash 
git stash list - to lsi out the stashed files
git stash apply - to restash. doesnt drop ny default
git stash drop - drops the stash
git stash pop - to restash and drop. 
	
Branching:

	git branch newBranchName - creates a new branch
	git branch - shows all branch
	git checkout branchName - to shift to that particular branch
	git merge branchName - merges the mentioned branch with the present working branch. If I am in master branch and I call, git merge demo, the demo is merged with master  
	git branch -d branchName - deletes the branch
	
Fork:
	creates a copy of the forked repository in our repository. We can make changes to it and send a pull request to the admin of that repository. 

SSH vs Http:

	SSH doesnt require a password for pushing. To set SSH refer https://help.github.com/articles/generating-an-ssh-key/
	
Git ignore: NEED MORE CLARIFICATION
	




	
		